README.md, before:

# strudel

Live coding patterns on the web
https://strudel.cc/

Development is moving to https://codeberg.org/uzu/strudel

- Try it here: <https://strudel.cc>
- Docs: <https://strudel.cc/learn>
- Technical Blog Post: <https://loophole-letters.vercel.app/strudel>
- 1 Year of Strudel Blog Post: <https://loophole-letters.vercel.app/strudel1year>
- 2 Years of Strudel Blog Post: <https://strudel.cc/blog/#year-2>

## Running Locally

After cloning the project, you can run the REPL locally:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
2. Install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation)
3. Install dependencies by running the following command:
   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```
4. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

## Using Strudel In Your Project

This project is organized into many [packages](./packages), which are also available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40strudel).

Read more about how to use these in your own project [here](https://strudel.cc/technical-manual/project-start).

You will need to abide by the terms of the [GNU Affero Public Licence v3](LICENSE). As such, Strudel code can only be shared within free/open source projects under the same license -- see the license for details.

Licensing info for the default sound banks can be found over on the [dough-samples](https://github.com/felixroos/dough-samples/blob/main/README.md) repository.

## Contributing

There are many ways to contribute to this project! See [contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md). You can find the full list of contributors [here](https://codeberg.org/uzu/strudel/activity/contributors).

## Community

There is a #strudel channel on the TidalCycles discord: <https://discord.com/invite/HGEdXmRkzT>

You can also ask questions and find related discussions on the tidal club forum: <https://club.tidalcycles.org/>

The discord and forum is shared with the haskell (tidal) and python (vortex) siblings of this project.

Commit message:

feat(ai-bridge): API server, WS browser client, CLI; minimal README
Adds Express+WS API server (port 3001), auto-connected browser client controlling CodeMirror, and CLI to send GET/SET/REPLACE/EVAL commands. README now focuses on overview, premise, and quick start. See plan.md and overview.md for architecture, endpoints, and workflow. Branch 'publish' tracks this release.

README.md, after:

# Param Strudels — AI‑Assisted Live Coding for Strudel

Build and perform live music with an autonomous AI agent that can read, write and evaluate Strudel code in your browser IDE.

This repo adds a lightweight API layer and CLI so external agents can control the Strudel editor in real time over HTTP/WebSocket, without invasive changes to core Strudel.

## What’s inside

- API server (Express + WebSocket) translating HTTP into editor actions
- Browser client that connects automatically and drives CodeMirror
- Minimal CLI for sending commands from the terminal

## Quick start

1. Install prerequisites
   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```
2. Start the API server
   ```bash
   pnpm api
   ```
3. Start the Strudel dev server (opens the IDE)
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```
4. In another terminal, try a command (sets code in the editor)
   ```bash
   node strudel-cli.mjs set "$: 'bd hh'"
   ```

That’s it — the AI bridge is live. Agents can now GET/SET editor content and trigger evaluation remotely.

## Premise

An autonomous agent collaborates with you by editing and executing Strudel patterns in real time, enabling hands‑free arrangement, transformation, and performance.

## More details

High‑level plan and technical overview live in the commit notes and these docs:

- `plan.md` — roadmap and phases
- `overview.md` — architecture and workflow

License: [AGPL‑3.0‑or‑later](LICENSE)
